(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Now it's your turn
to tackle a programming challenge that will require you
to create some collections and use their methods
to add and remove a few elements.
In this challenge,
the Landon Hotel is working on a room management system
that uses Java collections
to manage their inventory of rooms within a service.
They've built skeleton methods on a room service class
and have provided some comments
about what each method should do,
but they'll need your help
in completing their implementations.
To do this, you'll need to add a collection to the class,
then instantiate it and then work on each method
to complete its implementation.
Before you get started, I recommend reviewing the unit tests
that were provided to help you validate your work.
Once you're done,
just run the tests by right-clicking within it
and then going to run as JUnit test.
If you can get this bar to turn green,
you've got it and your work is done.
Now here's one tip before you begin.
You should follow the numbering sequence
specified in the room service class
when completing your work.
That's because the unit tests rely upon the order.
Okay, go ahead, hit the pause button, give it a try,
then continue the video
and I'll share one solution to the challenge.
You've got this.
So how did it go? Were you able to get your test to pass?
Let me show you how I approached it.
I started out by declaring a new field of type collection
that had a generic type of room.
I named this field inventory.
Then within our room service constructor,
I took the inventory field
and assigned it a new hash set that I instantiated.
So I'm using a hash set as my collection implementation.
You might have chose
to use something like an array list here.
That's fine.
Now for the next method,
I might have approached it a little bit differently
than you did.
I decided to use a conversion constructor
in order to create a copy of our collection.
I did this because I wanted to protect
the collection from modification.
Collections are mutable,
so if we just returned our internal collection,
somebody could modify the elements within it.
But by creating a defensive copy, we protect against this.
So that's what I chose to return for this method.
For the next method,
we needed to take the four parameters and create a room
and then insert it into our collection.
So first, I invoked the add method on our collection,
and then I used the new operator and the room constructor,
and then I just passed in all of the parameters
that were provided to the method into the constructor.
This created the new room instance
that would be added to our collection.
The next method required us to take an array of rooms
and insert the rooms into our collection.
So this is a great example
of when we can use a bulk insert operation.
So I'm going to invoke the add all method on our collection,
and then I need to convert the room array into a collection,
so I'll go ahead and use the Arrays.asList method.
This allows us to convert an array into a list.
So then we have a collection to pass in to add all
and all of that collection's elements
will be inserted into our inventory collection.
Then I moved on to the final method, removeRoom.
This method seemed a little bit straightforward.
We could just take our inventory collection, invoke remove,
and pass in the room that we'd like to remove.
But you'll notice if we execute the tests at this point,
they're going to fail.
Let's see that.
That's because we haven't overridden the equals method
in our room type and that's going to cause the remove method
not to work properly.
So let's head over to the room class
and we can put that method in place.
Once again, I'll just use the assistance provided by our IDE
to keep it simple.
So just right-click within the class and then go to source,
then generate HashCode in equals.
And then for the fields on the room
that we'll use to perform the value-based comparison,
I'm going to use the name and the type.
So I'll uncheck capacity and rate.
And those two fields will be used
to compare two instances of a room
using a value-based comparison.
Okay, so I'll generate that code
and then we can execute our tests again
to see if we pass the challenge.
So I'll just right-click then go to run as JUnit test
and there you can see we've passed.
Excellent.
So that completes the first challenge in this chapter.